
$Id$

Version 3.7.7 (?)

Don't edit bes.conf during make install, but document the bes-nc-dap.sh
script and the bes-conf make target in README.

Version 3.7.6 (13 March 2007)

Default data and bes.conf with make install, same as the other handlers in
this release.

Version 3.7.5

Better error handling.

Build fixes.

Version 3.7.4

Updates for the 1.4 release of Server 4. Also included are bug fixes, memory
leak fixes, and performance enhencements.

Version 3.7.3

The handler now builds DDS objects that contain attributes and will thus work
with server-side functions that use attributes.

Added support for compressed data.

Added new module build options. Now modules use the libtool -module and 
-no-version options.

The module name is now set by the bes configuration file, not in this code.

Version 3.7.2

Fix for ticket 488. Embedded double quotes in string attributes were not
escaped. The server was modified so that String attributes are now passed
through the libdap function escattr(). There may be differences for some
String attributes in some clients as a result. Note that this version of the
handler requires libdap 3.7.0 or greater.

Version 3.7.1

This version includes a fix for bug 435. There are serveral data handlers
that use the same names for externally visible functions. That's fine when
the handlers are executables, but not so when they are shared object
libraries. The function named have been changed.

Version 3.7.0

This version of the netCDF handler includes an executable for use with
Server3 and a shared-object library (aka module) for use with Server4. This
is a source release to support the Server4 1.2 beta release and has not been
tested with Server3, although there should be no problems.

Version 3.6.0

This version of the netcdf handler builds with libdap 3.6.0.

Patrice Dumas has contributed improvements to the spec file used to build the
RPM packages.

Misc. fixes for the handler when used with Server4 (which is in development).

Version 3.5.2

Fix for ticket 281: int variable break on 64 bit machines. The fix involved
using nc_var_get_int() in place of nc_var_get_long in NCArray::read() and
using NC_INT in place of NC_LONG in read's switch statement.

Version 3.5.1

Bug fix: The handler did not process arrays of bytes correctly.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The handler now works with the new dap server configuration.

Removed the libnc-dods software. The OPeNDAP-netCDF client library is now
in a separate CVS module named libnc-dap. 

This software now uses automake and a modern autoconf. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

01/27/03 jhrg

This code now builds with gcc 3.2 in addition to VC++ and gcc 2.95.3.

The software has been changed to work with DAP 3.3.

The configure script requires autoconf 2.13, even though the rest of the
DODS/NVODS software using autocond 2.53. This is because the UD macros from
Unidata don't work with the newer autoconf. I understand that they will soon
enough...
